['When I am laid in earth', 'a> (also known as Didos Lament) is the final aria sung by the Carthaginian queen Dido in Act ;III of Henry Purcells opera Dido and Aeneas (1683). Dido, who has fallen in love with the Trojan prince Aeneas, is heartbroken when she learns that he is planning to leave because of what he believes in an order from Mercury. Dido sings this aria as she is dying of grief following Aeneass departure, after a recitative in which she asks for Thy hand, Belinda (her sister and handmaiden). In her aria, she urges Remember me, but ah! Forget my fate. The aria uses a chromatic lament bass, a common feature in Baroque opera involving a descent from tonic to dominant in a minor key, first introduced by Claudio Monteverdi.']
['Der Hlle Rache kocht in meinem Herzen', 'a> (Hells vengeance boils in my heart) is an aria sung by the Queen of the Night in Act ;II of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozarts opera The Magic Flute (1791). The aria is commonly known as either just Der Hlle Rache or simply as The Queen of the Nights aria. In the aria, the Queen of the Night gives her daughter, Pamina, a knife, and orders her to assassinate Sarastro; if Pamina does not kill Sarastro, the Queen will disown her. The aria is renowned as one of the most spectacular and most difficult soprano arias in the common repertoire; it requires the singer to not only hit several staccato high Cs in succession, but also for the singer to leap up to the F higher than that. Josepha Hofer, Mozarts sister;in;law, played the Queen at the premiere of The Magic Flute; Mozart wrote Der Hlle Rache to showcase her high range.']
['Largo al factotum', 'a> (Make way for the factotum [servant] of the city) is an aria sung by Figaro in Act ;I of Gioacchino Rossinis opera The Barber of Seville (1816). This is Figaros first major aria of the opera, and he sings it when he first appears on stage. In it, he describes himself as a barber of quality, notes that everyone asks for me, and describes himself as equally skilled with a young lady as he is with razors and combs. Figaro sings this as he is walking along the street; he is subsequently approached by Lindororeally, Count Almaviva in disguisewho asks for Figaros help in wooing Rosina, the ward of the elderly Doctor Bartolo. In the oft;parodied, best;known moment of the aria, Figaro repeatedly sings his own name.']
['Il dolce suono', 'a> (The Sweet Sound) is an aria sung by Lucia in Act ;III of Gaetano Donizettis opera Lucia di Lammermoor (1835). In the opera (which is based on a novel by Sir Walter Scott), Lucia and Edgardo love one another; however, due to her brother Enricos machinations, Lucia is forced to marry Arturo instead. Lucia goes insane and stabs Arturo to death in the bridal chamber. In the ariawhich is commonly referred to as Lucias mad sceneLucia appears covered in Arturos blood, and hallucinates a scene in which she is marrying Edgardo. Donizetti maximized the eerie nature of the scene by calling for a glass harmonica in the accompaniment. Il dolce suono was a signature piece for soprano Joan Sutherland.']
['La donna  mobile', 'a> (Woman is fickle) is sung by the Duke of Mantua in Act ;III of Giuseppe Verdis opera Rigoletto (1851). The aria is a canzone (literally, a song), with verses and a repeating refrain that compares a woman to a feather in the wind. In Rigoletto, the title hunchbacked court jester swears revenge on the Duke of Mantua after the duke seduces Rigolettos daughter, Gilda. Rigoletto pays the assassin Sparafucile to kill the duke; however, Gildain love with the dukeoffers herself to die in the dukes place. The Duke first sings La donna  mobile after arriving at Sparafuciles house (having been lured by the promise of sex with Sparafuciles sister). Later, as Rigoletto is dragging the sack with what he thinks is the Dukes dead body, he hears the Duke again singing La donna  mobile. His daughternot the dukeis in the sack.']
['Lamour est un oiseau rebelle', 'a> (Love is a Rebellious Bird) is an aria from Act ;I of Georges Bizets opera Carmen (1875); it is sung by the title character the first time she appears on stage. The aria is in the style of an habanera, a dance developed in Cuba (and whose name refers to the city of Havana), and is often simply known by the name of the dance. Bizet adapted the arias music from a piece by composer Sebastin Iradier, thinking it was a traditional folk melody rather than an original work. In the aria, Carmen sings that love is a rebellious bird that no one can tame to a seductive, chromatically;descending melody, proclaiming if you dont love me, then I love you and if I love you, be on your guard. At the end of the aria, Carmen throws a flower to Don Jos, who subsequently falls in love with her and eventually kills her.']
['Vesti la giubba', 'a> (Put on the Costume or On with the Mottley) is sung by Canio at the end of Act ;I of Ruggero Leoncavallos opera Pagliacci (1892). Canio and his wife Nedda are members of a commedia dellarte performing troupe; Canios role is that of Pierrot (the clown), while Neddas role is that of Colombina, Pierrots unfaithful wife. At the end of Act ;I, Canio has discovered that Nedda has been unfaithful in reality; however, they have a performance scheduled, so Canio is faced with the torture of having to dress up as Pierrot and play out humorously, on stage, what is actually happening in his real life. In the arias signature moment, Canio sings Laugh, clown, at your broken love! Enrico Carusos 1902 recording of the aria became the first record to sell more than one million copies.']
['Nessun Dorma', 'a> (None Shall Sleep) is an aria sung by Prince Calaf at the beginning of Act ;III in Giacomo Puccinis opera Turandot (1926). The Chinese princess Turandot swears she will only wed any man who can answer her three riddles; she executes any who fail. The disguised Prince Calaf correctly answers Turandots riddles and poses one of his own: if she can learn his name by sunrise, then she can still execute him. Calaf sings Nessun Dorma as all of Turandots subjects frantically try to discover his name. In the aria, Calaf claims he will only speak his name on the princesss mouth, when he kisses her. The aria ends with three triumphant cries of Vincer, or I will win! The aria was the signature performance piece of tenor Luciano Pavarotti, who also performed it in concert as part of the Three Tenors supergroup.']
['Summertime', 'a> is an aria sung by Clara at the beginning of Act ;I in George Gershwins opera Porgy and Bess (1935). Summertime, which is the first significant number in the opera, is sung by Clara as a lullaby to her baby. A languid, undulating harmony accompanies Clara, as she sings Summertime and the livin is easy / fish are jumpin, and the cotton is high. Clara and her husband Jake die in a hurricane at the end of Act ;II; in Act ;III, Bess reprises Summertime by singing it to their baby, who is now an orphan. Gershwin wrote Summertime in an attempt to capture the feel of a Black spiritual; the piece subsequently became a jazz standard. The lyrics for Summertime were written by DuBose Heyward, who also wrote the novel on which the opera is based.']
['News has a kind of mystery', 'a> is sung by Richard Nixon in Act ;I of John Adamss opera Nixon in China (1987). The News aria is Nixons first significant aria, sung after the Spirit of 76 touches down, he exits the plane, and greets Zhou Enlai (stylized as Chou En;lai in the operas libretto). Nixon marvels at the instantaneous nature of the moment, and of news in general, singing that when I shook hands with Chou En;lai on this bare field outside Peking, just now, the world was listening. As Chou introduces various officials, Nixon continues to sing about the news, noting Its prime time in the U.S.A., yesterday night and that the meeting is being broadcast on all three major U.S. networks. The aria features Adamss signature minimalist style; Nixon at first repeatedly sings the word news, then repeats the phrase has a several times before singing the full sentence.']
