['King Arthur', ', The Once and Future King, was the son of Uther Pendragon and Lady Igraine.  Uther disguised himself as Igraines husband Gorlois to sleep with her.  Arthur wields the legendary sword Excalibur and rules the Britons from the castle of Camelot beside his wife, Queen Guinevere.  The stories of Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table are recounted by Geoffrey of Monmouth in Historia Regnum Britanniae, works by Chrtien de Troyes, and Thomas Mallorys Le Morte dArthur, among others.  The different sources disagree on various details; for instance, some sources state that Arthur received Excalibur from the Lady of the Lake, while in others he pulls the sword from a stone.  After the Battle of Camlann, King Arthur gives Excalibur to his marshal, Sir Bedivere, and is taken to the isle of Avalon to die.']
['Merlin', ' is a powerful wizard who serves as Arthurs chief advisor.  When Merlin was a child, King Vortigern was told that the boys blood was necessary to keep his tower from constantly collapsing; however, Merlin identified a pool beneath the tower in which two dragons fought as the source of the instability.  Some sources credit Merlin with constructing the Round Table as well as Stonehenge.  Merlins primary apprentice is the sorceress Morgan le ;Fay, Arthurs half;sister on his mothers side.  Some sources have Merlin wind up trapped in an enchanted tomb (possibly in a cave, possibly in a tree) by a figure identified as Vivien or Nimue (the Lady of the Lake).  In other tales, Merlin dies and is buried in the legendary forest Brocliande.']
['Queen Guinevere', ' is the daughter of Leodegrance and the wife of King Arthur.  In one story, Guinevere is abducted by Meleagant (or Melwas), a king of Somerset, and rescued by Lancelot, beginning an illicit affair between the two.  After the affair is revealed to Arthur (in some sources by Mordred, in others by Agravain), Arthur orders her to be burned at the stake; she is rescued from that fate by Lancelot in a battle that results in the deaths of Sir Gareth and Sir Gaheris and the permanent exile of Lancelot.  Some sources say that Guinevere spent her final days hiding in the Tower of London or in a nearby convent.']
['Sir Lancelot', ' is the foremost among the Knights of the Round Table, an expert swordsman and jouster who is the primary figure of the Vulgate Cycle.  The son of King Ban of Benwick, Lancelot was raised by the Lady of the Lake, which earned him the epithet du Lac or of the Lake.  Another of his epithets is Knight of the Cart, which he earned for riding in a dwarfs cart while searching for Guinevere after she was kidnapped.  Aside from his adulterous affair with Queen Guinevere, Lancelot is known for fathering Sir Galahad with Elaine of Corbenic, who had tricked Lancelot into sleeping with her by disguising herself as Guinevere.  After his betrayal of Arthur was revealed, Lancelot fled to France and was therefore not present during the Battle of Camlann.']
['Sir Galahad', ' is a Knight of the Round Table renowned for his purity and honor.  Galahad is the illegitimate son of Sir Lancelot and King Pelless daughter Lady Elaine of Corbenic.  Sir Galahad is the only member of Arthurs corps who can sit in the Siege Perilous, a seat at the Round Table set aside by Merlin for the knight who would complete the quest for the Holy Grail.  Galahads quest for the Holy Grail, which he completed alongside Sir Percival and Sir Bors, ended when he encountered the Fisher King, who asked him to take the chalice to Sarras.  Galahad is supposedly descended from the brother;in;law of Joseph of Arimathea, who later visits him and allows him to ascend to Heaven.']
['Sir Percival', ' is a Knight of the Round Table who accompanies Sir Galahad and Sir Bors on the successful quest for the Holy Grail.  Percival is one of the sons of King Pellinore.  He was raised in the woods by his (unnamed) mother until he turned 15.  Although Percival fails to identify the Holy Grail during an early encounter with the wounded Fisher King that involved a bleeding lance, he later heals the Fisher Kings wound at the end of the quest.  In some stories, Percival loves a woman named Blanchefleur, and he is named as the father of Lohengrin in many Germanic sources. ']
['Sir Gawain', ' is a Knight of the Round Table and the son of Morgause and King Lot of Orkney, making him the nephew of King Arthur.  He is the hero of the Pearl Poets 14th;century romantic epic Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, in which Gawains loyalty and resolve are tested by the title Green Knight (secretly Lord Bertilak), who survives his beheading at the hands of Gawain and returns a year later to return the favor.  Gawains brothers Gareth and Gaheris are killed during Lancelots rescue of Queen Guinevere, sending Gawain into a frenzy.']
['Mordred', ' is King Arthurs illegitimate son by his half;sister Morgause (they were unaware of their shared parentage), possibly making him the rightful heir to Camelot.  Mordred is best known as a traitorous figure who crowns himself King of the Britons while King Arthur is in Gaul fighting the mythical Emperor Lucius of Rome.  Mordred is also frequently linked with Queen Guinevere:  some accounts say that he reported the queens affair with Lancelot to Arthur, some say that Mordred took Guinevere as a concubine during his usurpation of Arthurs throne, and some say that Mordreds wife was Guineveres sister Gwenhwyfach.  Arthur killed Mordred at the Battle of Camlann.']
['Tristan and Iseult', ' were a pair of lovers who predate the stories of King Arthur but nonetheless appear in the Vulgate and Post;Vulgate Cycles.  Sir Tristan was a knight who brings Iseult the Fair back to Cornwall to marry his uncle King Mark after killing Morholt, an Irish knight extorting the king.  During the return journey, the pair ingest a powerful potion and fall deeply in love with each other, but Iseult nevertheless marries Tristans uncle.  The love potion, however, forces the pair to continuously seek one another out, and King Mark eventually discovers their affair.  Tristan escapes his execution and later marries a different woman known as Iseult of the White Hands.  Their story inspired Richard Wagners opera Tristan und Isolde.']
['The Lady of the Lake', ' is a character who goes by many other names, among them Nimue and Vivien.  In many stories, the Lady of the Lake is responsible for bestowing Excalibur upon King Arthur.  She also gave Merlin his powers of sorcery and raised Sir Lancelot after his fathers death.  The Lady of the Lake is frequently associated with the isle of Avalon and is sometimes conflated with Morgan le Fay.']
