['Heracles', ' (or, as the Romans referred to him, Hercules) is often considered the greatest of the Greek heroes. He was the son of Alcmene and Zeus, which earned him the lifelong enmity of Zeuss wife Hera. Hera struck Heracles with a temporary madness so that he killed his wife Megara and their children. As penance, Heracles served King Eurystheus for ten years and completed twelve labors. Some of his most famous labors were slaying the Nemean Lion, whose skin was impenetrable; slaying the nine;headed Lernaean Hydra, which would sprout new heads when one was cut off; redirecting two rivers to clean the massive Augean stables in one day; and capturing Cerberus, the three;headed guard dog of the Underworld. Heracles was killed when the centaur Nessus tricked Heracless wife Deianira into giving him a poisoned shirt. After his death, Heracles was deified and married the goddess of youth, Hebe.']
['Theseus', ' was a prince of Athens who was described as both the son of King Aegeus and the son of Poseidon. He was raised by his mother Aethra in Troezen, then as a young man took a land journey back to Athens, during which he defeated six foes, including the bandits Sinis, Sciron, and Procrustes. After Theseus was sent by Medea to kill the Marathonian Bull, he voluntarily went to Crete to combat the Minotaur, a bull;headed monster who devoured the Athenian tributes demanded every nine years by King Minos. Minoss daughter Ariadne gave Theseus a ball of string to help him navigate the Labyrinth, and he successfully slew the Minotaur. Theseus escaped with Ariadne, but later abandoned her on the island of Naxos. On the way back to Athens, Theseus forgot to replace the black sails on his ship with white sails, which led his father King Aegeus to commit suicide because he believed Theseus had been killed.']
['Perseus', ' was the son of Dana and Zeus. Perseuss grandfather, King Acrisius of Argos, had heard a prophecy that his grandson would kill him, so he banished Dana and Perseus by setting them adrift in a chest on the ocean. Perseus grew up on Seriphos, whose king Polydectes resolved to marry Dana unless Perseus could bring him the head of the gorgon Medusa, a monstrous woman with snakes for hair and a petrifying gaze. After securing advice from three sisters called the Graeae, Perseus located Medusa, and using Hermess winged sandals, Hadess Helm of Invisibility, and a mirrored shield from Athena, he was able to behead her. On his way back to Seriphos, Perseus used the head of Medusa to rescue the Ethiopian princess Andromeda from the sea monster Cetus. Perseus also killed Polydectes, whose advances on Dana had turned violent in his absence. During an athletic competition later in life, Perseus accidentally hit the spectating Acrisius with a discus, killing him and thus fulfilling the prophecy.']
['Jason', ' was the son of Aeson, the rightful king of Iolcos who had been usurped by Jasons uncle Pelias. In an attempt to kill Jason, Pelias offered him the throne if he completed a quest to Colchis and retrieved the Golden Fleece. Jason assembled a crew of heroes, named the Argonauts after their ship, the Argo, for the quest. When they arrived in Colchis, King Aetes agreed to give Jason the Fleece if he performed a series of daring tasks. With the help of Aetess daughter, the sorceress Medea, Jason yoked the fire;breathing Bulls of Colchis, plowed a field and sowed it with dragons teeth, defeated the Spartoi warriors that sprung from the teeth, and finally overcame the dragon guarding the fleece. When Jason and Medea returned to Iolcos, they murdered Pelias and were exiled to Corinth. Jason abandoned Medea for the Corinthian princess Glauce, and in revenge, Medea killed Glauce as well as her own children with Jason. For breaking his marriage vow, Jason lost favor with Hera and died unhappy.']
['Achilles', ' was the greatest Greek warrior during the Trojan War. He was the son of King Peleus and the Nereid Thetis, who dipped him in the River Styx as a child to make his body invulnerable, except for the heel by which she held him. Thetis tried to keep Achilles out of the Trojan War by disguising him as a girl on the island of Skyros, but his trickery was exposed by Odysseus. Achilles refused to continue fighting in the Trojan War after the Greek commander, Agamemnon, seized his concubine Briseis. As the Trojans start to gain the upper hand, Achilless friend (and, by many interpretations, lover) Patroclus donned Achilless armor and led his Myrmidon warriors into battle. After Patroclus was killed by the Trojans best warrior, Hector, Achilles flew into a berserk rage and massacred many of the remaining Trojans, including Hector. Achilles was eventually killed by the Trojan prince Paris, who shot an arrow into Achilless vulnerable heel.']
['Odysseus', ' was a king of Ithaca and one of the Greek leaders during the Trojan War. Odysseus originally tried to avoid the war by pretending to be insane, but was exposed when Palamedes put his son Telemachus in front of his plow. During the war, Odysseus showcased his cunning by proposing the idea for the Trojan Horse. Odysseuss ten;year journey home from the war is the subject of Homers Odyssey. He escaped and blinded the cyclops Polyphemus, foiled the enchantments of the sorceress Circe, was forced to live with the sea nymph Calypso for seven years, and much more. When Odysseus arrived back in Ithaca, he found that his loyal wife Penelope was being harassed by rowdy suitors who believed him to be dead. Odysseus disguised himself as a beggar, and when Penelope proposed an archery contest among the suitors, he revealed his identity and killed them. After Odysseus convinces Penelope that he truly is her husband, they happily reunite.']
['Diomedes', ' was a king of Argos and a great Greek warrior, second only to Achilles in martial prowess during the Trojan War. Early in life, Diomedess father Tydeus, who was a member of the Seven Against Thebes, was killed during a rebellion against the city. Diomedes and the other Epigoni (the sons of the Seven) avenged their fathers by sacking and plundering Thebes.  During the Trojan War, Diomedes and Odysseus participated in a daring night raid on the Trojan camp. One Trojan warrior named Glaucus challenged Diomedes to single combat, but after they realized that their grandfathers had been friends, they swapped armor instead of fighting. Diomedes was the only mortal other than Heracles to fight and injure gods, wounding both Ares and Aphrodite. After the war, Diomedes founded many cities in Italy.']
['Ajax the Great', ', or Telamonian Ajax, was a massive and powerful Greek warrior during the Trojan War. Ajax fought with a massive shield made of cow;hide and bronze, which he used to protect his half;brother Teucer, a potent archer. Ajax fought the premier Trojan warrior, Hector, and wounded him, but the match was called a draw and Ajax gave Hector a purple sash in exchange for Hectors sword. Ajax competed with Odysseus for the armor of Achilles after his death, but the armor was awarded to Odysseus. In a fit of rage and insanity, Ajax slaughtered a herd of sheep, thinking they were the Greek leaders who had ruled against him. When Ajax came to his senses and realized what he had done, he committed suicide in shame.']
['Bellerophon', ' was a demigod son of Poseidon. He rejected the advances of Queen Stheneboea, who then falsely accused him of assault. King Iobates refused to directly murder a guest, so he instead sent Bellerophon on a perilous quest to defeat the Chimera, a fire;breathing monster with the head of a lion, body of a goat, and tail of a snake. To aid in his quest, Athena visited Bellerophon in a dream and gave him a golden bridle with which he tamed the flying horse Pegasus. Bellerophon rode Pegasus up to the lair of the Chimera and threw a spear tipped with a block of lead into its mouth; the monsters breath melted the lead, which suffocated it. Bellerophons arrogance, or hubris, grew so much that he attempted to ride Pegasus up to Mount Olympus and live among the gods. Zeus sent a gadfly to sting Pegasus, and Bellerophon fell and was blinded from his landing. He lived the rest of his life wandering the land in misery.']
['Atalanta', ' was abandoned on a mountain as a baby because her father wanted a son. She was raised by bears, which helped her become one of the greatest and fastest hunters. Atalanta joined the hunt for the Calydonian Boar, a giant wild boar that was ravaging the land. Atalanta drew first blood on the boar, and after it was killed, the leader of the hunt, Meleager, awarded its hide to her. After the hunt, Atlanta was recognized by her father, who wanted to arrange a marriage for her. A prophecy had foretold Atalantas doom if she married, so she agreed to only marry the man who could beat her in a race; all losers were killed. One suitor, Melanion, enlisted the help of Aphrodite, who gave him three golden apples which he used to distract Atalanta during the race and win the contest and her hand in marriage. After Atalanta and Melanion had sex in a temple of Zeus, the gods turned them into lions as punishment for their disrespect.']
