['Augustus', ' (63 ;BCAD ;14, reigned 27 ;BCAD ;14) was the first Roman emperor. Born Gaius Octavius, he was the grandnephew and heir of Julius Caesar. After Caesar was assassinated, Octavian formed the Second Triumvirate with Marc Antony and Marcus Lepidus to defeat Caesars assassins. With the help of Marcus Agrippa, he sidelined Lepidus and defeated Antony at the Battle of Actium to seize the empire. Ruling as princeps, or first citizen, Augustus created the Praetorian Guard and added Egypt to the empire, but halted expansion into Germania after a crushing defeat at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest.']
['Tiberius', ' (42 ;BCAD ;37, reigned AD ;1437) was Augustuss stepson. During his fathers reign, Tiberius led the conquests of Pannonia and Raetia in central Europe and became the imperial heir with the support of his mother Livia. Unhappy as emperor, he mostly resided in his island villa on Capri and left Lucius Sejanus to manage the state. However, when Sejanus attempted to seize power in AD ;31, Tiberius had him arrested and executed. Tiberius was emperor when Jesus of Nazareth was crucified around AD ;33.']
['Caligula', ' (AD ;12AD ;41, reigned AD ;3741) was the son of Germanicus, Tiberiuss popular nephew, and earned the nickname Caligula, or little boot, from his fathers soldiers. Though initially moderate, Caligula became increasingly tyrannical, supposedly trying to build a palace on Lake Nemi and to make his horse, Incitatus, a consul. In AD ;41, Cassius Chaerea led a conspiracy of senators and Praetorian guards that killed Caligula and his immediate family.']
['Claudius', ' (10 ;BCAD ;54, reigned AD ;4154) was Caligulas uncle. A noted scholar, he was the last person able to read ancient Etruscan. He oversaw the conquest of Britain and centralized power through a bureaucracy featuring talented freedmen like Tiberius Narcissus. In AD ;49, Claudius married his niece Agrippina the Younger, who then poisoned both Claudiuss son Britannicus and the Emperor himself.']
['Nero', ' (AD ;37AD ;68, reigned AD ;5468) was the son of Agrippina the Younger. Nero provoked scandal by performing as an actor and musician. He ordered his mothers death in AD ;58, and ordered the deaths of Seneca the Younger and several others after the Pisonian Conspiracy. Nero supposedly fiddled during the Great Fire of Rome and persecuted Christians after it. In AD ;68, he was deposed by the Senate and committed suicide.']
['Trajan', ' (AD ;53AD ;117, reigned AD ;98117) led Rome to its greatest territorial extent. After succeeding Nerva, Trajan defeated Decebalus to conquer the rich Kingdom of Dacia (modern;day Romania). He employed Apollodorus of Damascus to build Trajans Column and Trajans Bridge across the Danube. Near the end of his reign, Trajan invaded the Parthian Empire, sacking its capital of Ctesiphon and annexing Armenia and Mesopotamia.']
['Hadrian', ' (76138, reigned 117138) was Trajans younger cousin who succeeded him as emperor. At the start of his reign, he withdrew from Trajans conquests in the east. While traveling in Greece, he joined the Eleusinian Mysteries; while visiting Egypt, his beloved companion Antinous drowned in the Nile. He also commissioned Hadrians Wall to mark the border of Roman Britain and crushed the Bar Kokhba revolt in Judea.']
['Marcus Aurelius', ' (121180, reigned 161180) was the last of Romes Five Good Emperors. With Lucius Verus, Marcus inherited the throne from his uncle Antoninus Pius and secured a decisive victory over the Parthian Empire. Marcus then spent much of his reign dealing with the Antonine Plague and fighting the Marcomannic Wars. During this time he wrote the Meditations, a journal and major text of Stoic philosophy.']
['Diocletian', ' (244305, reigned 284305) stabilized the empire after the Crisis of the Third Century. He took power by defeating Carinus at the Battle of the Margus before creating the Tetrarchy, a new system of imperial rule with two senior emperors and two junior emperors. He unsuccessfully attempted to curb inflation with his Edict on Maximum Prices and led the last and largest persecution of Christians. In 305, he became the first emperor to voluntarily step down, retiring to his palace in Split, Croatia.']
['Constantine', ' (272335, reigned 306335) was the son of Constantius Chlorus, one of the junior members of Diocletians Tetrarchy. Proclaimed emperor by his fathers men, Constantine defeated Maxentius at the Battle of Milvian Bridge to seize Italy and then defeated his brother;in;law Licinius to win the east. He proposed the Edict of Milan giving tolerance to Christians and oversaw the Christian Council of Nicea. Constantine also converted the city of Byzantium into Constantinople, the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire for the next 1,100 years.']
['Vespasian', ' (AD ;9AD ;79, reigned AD ;69AD ;79) emerged from the Year of the Four Emperors in AD ;69 to found the Flavian Dynasty, and later commissioned the Colosseum.']
['Septimius Severus', ' (145211, reigned 193211) triumphed in the Year of the Five Emperors and founded the Severan dynasty. He was the first emperor to be born in Africa.']
['Aurelian', ' (215275, reigned 270275) reconquered the territory lost during the Crisis of the Third Century by defeating Zenobia of the Palmyrene Empire and retaking Gaul and Britain.']
['Theodosius', ' (347405, reigned 379405) was the last man to rule both the eastern and western halves of the empire.']
['Romulus Augustulus', ' (460507, reigned 475476) is traditionally regarded as the last \x93Roman emperor.\x94 He was deposed in 476 by Odoacer, marking the end of the Western Roman Empire.']
