['The To be, or not to be soliloquy', 'is delivered by Hamlet in act ;III, scene ;1. The scene opens with King Claudius conversing with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern about the cause of Hamlets melancholy. To determine if Hamlets state is due to love for Ophelia, Claudius and Polonius (Ophelias father), ask Ophelia to speak with Hamlet while they listen in. Hamlet subsequently enters, delivering one of the most famous soliloquies in all of literature:To be, or not to be, that is the question:Whether tis nobler in the mind to sufferThe slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,Or to take Arms against a Sea of troubles,And by opposing end them.Hamlet ponders whether death is preferable to the suffering of living, noting thatTo die, to sleep,to sleep, perchance to Dream; aye, theres the rubFor in that sleep of death, what dreams may come.Hamlet goes on to refer to death as the undiscovered country, before noting that due to the unknown ills of death, conscience does make cowards of us all.']
['Mark Antonys funeral oration', 'is delivered in act ;III, scene ;2 of Julius Caesar. Prior to Antonys address, Brutus claims that his participation in the conspirators murder of Caesar was due to his love of Rome, claiming that as [Caesar] was ambitious, I slew him. Antony subsequently draws the attention of the crowd by exhorting Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears. Antony begins by claimingI come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.The evil that men do lives after them,The good is oft interred with their bones;So let it be with Caesar.Antony concedes that if Caesar was ambitious, it was a grievous fault, ;/ And grievously hath Caesar answerd it. While tacitly acknowledging that Brutus and the conspirators are honorable men, Antony proceeds to counter their claim, noting that Caesar brought wealth to Rome via the ransoms of his captives, and that Caesar cared for the poor. He statesYou all did see that on the LupercalI thrice presented him a kingly crown,Which he did thrice refuse: was this ambition?Antony concludes with a flourish, lamenting My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar ;/ And I must pause till it come back to me. Antonys speech immediately turns public opinion against the conspirators.']
['All the worlds a stage', 'is a monologue delivered in act ;II, scene ;7 of As You Like It by Jaques. A desperate Orlando has come upon the exiled Dukes camp in the Forest of Arden, and demands food, threatening force if necessary, but the Duke warmly welcomes him. The sight of Orlando prompts Jaques to deliver a monologue notingAll the worlds a stage,And all the men and women merely players;They have their exits and their entrances,And one man in his time plays many parts,His acts being seven ages,giving the passage its alternate title, the Seven Ages of Man. Jaques describes the seven ages as the infant, the schoolboy, the lover, the soldier, the justice, the pantaloon, and second childishness. His description of old age is grim, noting that man ends Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.']
['The Saint Crispins Day speech', 'is delivered by Henry ;V in act ;IV, scene ;3. On the eve of the Battle of Agincourt against the French, Henry overhears Westmorland wishing they had but one in every 10,000 of the men left behind in England. Henry responds by delivering a speech noting the fewer men, the greater share of honor, before stating he which hath no stomach to this fight, ;/ Let him depart. Henry remarks that the battle will be fought on Saint Crispins Day, and promises He that outlives this day, and comes safe home, ;/ Will stand a tip;toe when the day is namd. The king rouses his men by describing his army as We few, we happy few, we band of brothers and ends by promising thatgentlemen in England now a;bedShall think themselves accursd they were not here,And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaksThat fought with us upon Saint Crispins day.According to Shakespeare, in the subsequent battle, the French suffer over 10,000 casualties; the English, less than 30.']
['The Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow soliloquy', 'is delivered by Macbeth in act ;V, scene ;5, near the end of the play. Macbeth hears a shriek that he notes would have terrified him earlier in his life, but not after the horrors he has experienced in the play. Subsequently, Seyton informs him the cry was the death of Lady Macbeth, prompting Macbeth to muse Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, ;/ Creeps in this petty pace from day to day. Macbeth likens death to the extinguishing of a flame, stating Out, out, brief candle! before noting thatLifes but a walking shadow, a poor playerThat struts and frets his hour upon the stageAnd then is heard no more. It is a taleTold by an idiot, full of sound and furySignifying nothing.William Faulkner adapted the soliloquys penultimate line for the title of his novel The Sound and the Fury.']
['Now is the winter of our discontent', 'is a monologue delivered by the future Richard ;III (then the Duke of Gloucester) to open act ;I, scene ;1 of his namesake play. In the very first lines of the play, Richard remarks on the ascension of Edward ;IV amidst the Wars of the Roses, stating Now is the winter of our discontent ;/ Made glorious summer by this son of York. Richard notes that Edward, having taken the throne, no longer rides into battle, but capers nimbly in a ladys chamber. Richard, however, is an ugly, deformed, hunchback, describing himself as rudely stampd and lamenting that dogs bark at me as I halt by them. He resolves thatsince I cannot prove a lover,To entertain these fair well;spoken days,I am determined to prove a villainand describes the plot he has hatched to pit Edward against Richards brother Clarence. Richard finishes by contrasting himself with the king, stating if King Edward be as true and just ;/ As I am subtle, false, and treacherous, ;/ This day should Clarence closely be mewd up.']
['Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks', 'is a monologue delivered by King Lear in act ;III, scene ;2. Lear, having been taken in by the false flattery of his daughters Regan and Goneriland having disinherited his honest daughter Cordeliais enraged when Regan and Goneril betray him and refuse to honor their promises to house and care for him. Rushing out onto the heath, he addresses the storm raging overhead, shoutingBlow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow!You cataracts and hurricanes, spoutTill you have drenchd our steeples, drownd the cocks!Lears fool, who accompanies him, urges Lear to apologize to his daughters and ask for shelter, but Lear refuses. He notes that the wind and rain never broke any promises to him, stating I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness; ;/ I never gave you kingdom, calld you children. Lear concludes by lamenting his foolishness and his plight, calling himself A poor, infirm, weak, and despisd old man with two pernicious daughters. During the storm, Lear is eventually reunited with his faithful servant Kent.']
['The Balcony Scene', ' in act ;II, scene ;2 of Romeo and Juliet contains two of the best;known speeches in the entire play. Having fallen in love with Juliet after seeing her at Capulets ball, Romeo sneaks into the garden under her balcony to try and meet with her. Spying her at her window, he exclaims But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks? ;/ It is the east, and Juliet is the sun. Romeo watches and notes that Juliet is speaking to the stars; after he hears her voice the first time, he urges O, speak again, bright angel! Julietwho does not realize Romeo is listeninglongs for him, calling out O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo? Juliet laments that the feud between their families forbids their love, urging Romeo deny thy father and refuse thy name before musing Whats in a name? that which we call a rose ;/ By any other name would smell as sweet. Romeo subsequently reveals himself, and the two lovers speak to one another for the first time.']
['Hath not a Jew eyes?', ' is a speech delivered by the moneylender Shylock in act ;III, scene ;1 of The Merchant of Venice. Although The Merchant of Venice contains many anti;Semitic elements, scholars have noted that Shakespeares characterization of Shylock also includes sympathetic moments. The messenger Salarino asks what good Shylock will get from the pound of flesh he plans to extract from Antonio. Shylock responds by stating if it will feed nothing else, it will feed my revenge before listing the extensive injuries Antonio has inflicted upon him, concluding and whats his reason? I am a Jew. Noting that Jews are human beings like Christians, Shylock asks Hath not a Jew eyes? hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions? He goes on to note If you prick us, do we not bleed? if you tickle us, do we not laugh? if you poison us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not revenge? Shylock explains that since Christians may seek revenge against Jews that wrong them, he is only responding in kind, pointing out the hypocrisy and noting The villainy you teach me I will execute.']
['Our revels now are ended', 'is a short speech delivered by Prospero in act ;IV, scene ;1 of The Tempest. Prospero has blessed the impending marriage of his daughter Miranda to Ferdinand, the son of Alonso, and uses his magic to make the spirit Ariel present a masque featuring the goddesses Iris, Ceres, and Juno. However, Prospero interrupts the dancing when he realizes he must deal with a conspiracy involving Caliban. Noticing the disappointment of Ferdinand, Prospero reminds him that the playlike both life and the world entirewas fleeting, statingOur revels now are ended. These our actors,As I foretold you, were all spirits andAre melted into air.Prospero notes that eventually the great globe itself, ;/ Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve. Once again, Shakespeare compares death to sleep and dreams, as Prospero states We are such stuffAs dreams are made on, and our little lifeIs rounded with a sleep.Prosperos line is often misquoted as such stuff as dreams are made of, rather than on.']
